Project description:
I have chosen to focus on investigating the impact of Covid-19 on the
general US economy and its impact on the local NYC economy. Its spread has 
the left national economy and businesses counting the costs, as governments 
struggle with new lockdown measures to tackle the spread of the virus.
The S&P 500, or simply the S&P, is a stock market index that measures the stock 
performance of 500 large companies listed on stock exchanges in the United States. 
The S&P saw a huge fall as the number of Covid-19 cases grew in the first months
of the crisis. I will be comparing the performance of S&P 500 over the 2019 & 2020 years
and it's correlation the number of positive Covid cases in NYC.
The local NYC economic sector has been hit hard, with thousands of jobs and many 
companies going bankrupt. I will investigate the impact of Covid-19 by analyzing
a dataset from NYC Open Data that tracks the legally operating businesses in New York City.

List of datasets:
1. Name: COVID-19 Outcomes by Testing Cohorts: Cases, Hospitalizations, and Deaths
   Source: https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Health/COVID-19-Outcomes-by-Testing-Cohorts-Cases-Hospita/cwmx-mvra
   Description: The dataset shows outcomes (confirmed cases, hospitalizations, and deaths) for cohorts defined by each date of specimen collection (specimen_date).

2. Name: Legal Operating Businesses
   Source: https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Business/Legally-Operating-Businesses/w7w3-xahh
   Description: This data set features businesses/individuals holding a DCA license so that
   they may legally operate in New York City. Note: Sightseeing guides and temporary street 
   fair vendors are not included in this data set.

3. Name: S&P500 Daily Open & Close price
   Source: https://polygon.io/
   Description: Aggregate bars for a S&P 500 index over a given date range.
   
Data Cleaning and Integration:
COVID-19 Outcomes by Testing Cohorts: Cases, Hospitalizations, and Deaths
This dataset is a csv file. There were empty values and ill-formatted values for the
extract_date and specimen_date columns. I used pandas to drop rows that had invalid values
for these columns. The number of confirmed cases were aggregated and summed using the 
specimen_date. The data was then filtered by year 2020. 

Legal Operating Businesses:
This dataset was download from NYC Open Data site. here were empty values and ill-formatted 
values for the 'License Expiration Date' and 'License Creation Date' columns. I used pandas 
to drop rows that had invalid values for these columns. Data from 2019 and 2020 were
separated into two different panda DataFrames.

S&P500 Daily Open & Close price:
This dataset was download from polygon.io. I had to create an account on the polygon web
site. I had to obtain an API key to use for all polygon queries. Polygon has implemented 
rate limiting for its REST API. I constructed a URL and queried the REST API. I saved the data as a json file and used pandas to read the json data into a pandas DataFrame.


